Eearly pregnancies quite a
dramatic time for many women.
The body changes
quite significantly
some of the most common changes
on nausea so some women can feel sick.
A lot of the day
while we call it morning sickness
it often last much longer than that.
Some women can feel incredibly tired and
the tiredness comes on very very suddenly.
Breast changes occur breasts can
feel larger and much more tender
and of course
there's all those mixed
mixed up emotions around
being excited and anxious and.
Some women may not have been prepared
to be pregnant and they now confronting the
fact that their lives
will change forever
the first three months.
It's very busy with
physical changes
I think my tastes
changed alot it so..
interestingly enough
I first realized i was
pregnant i couldn't
I just had a really metallic
bitter taste in my mouth.
The first real physical changes was..
for me where feet swelling
and in the mornings my
hands were really swollen
I actually didn't have a lot of weight gain
actually had weight loss.
With him in the first
trimester i was really sick.
Morning sickness afternoon sickness
midday sickness night sickness
I was just sick all the time
I think for me it was important..
You know what kind of support would be
out there for me so whether i wanted to go
public or private like that is
important for a lot of people
so for me
a big leap was..
Looking for appointments at hospital
like you don't really know..
When it'll happens what to do.
the most important thing for
parents to do is to get a..
provider who they get to know
and they trust and have access to.
So whether that's your midwife
or your gp or your obstetrician.
Make sure you find someone
who will beyour anchor point.
My first thought was to go seek help..
go see a doctor
it's really important
that my moms
and dads
both keep very
fit and healthy.
So first you know what's important
is obviously the big
things don't smoke.
Don't drink
and eat healthily
good balance dot
regular exercise and of course
you need to you know if you're
not an olympic athlete don't go out
and become one during pregnancy.
but you know..
a gentle walk
and you know two or three times a
week try and get some exercise
we do know that putting on a
lot of weight during pregnancy.
Can lead to complications it's also
harder to lose after you've had the baby.
Some of the emotional changes that i noticed
in early pregnancy where mood swings
so you'd get
Probably a bit more moody than normal,
you know cause the influx of hormones
you're  very fragile
you get offended.
with like you know slight
something and you are so teary.
It became a bit overwhelming
with over nausea and vomiting.
and.
You know so that
was not very fun
quite.
Costs a lot of
stress and anxiety
i guess as well.
And
when you have a little
bleedes in the first trimester or
and you know
things that seem to be normal
are still very scary
it's just all the hormones
in your body and.
You
i think also
your mind is trying to comprehend
that you're making a person
so the first trimester
can bring all sorts of
conflicting emotions.
The number one thing
the first trimester brings the
is is this baby going to.
Survive and will miscarry.
Cause really until after women get to about
twelve weeks that tends to be one of the
number one things
that they think about.
I took out on my husband and i remember
because we don't have any family here so he
was the only person
around me that i could..
I.
Get it all out.
we both going through a
lot of changes we were..
Starting a family
together it was..
a massive things
for the both of us and.
I think emotionally
for both of us it was a
quite
a challenging time.
you have all these thoughts about..
Am i going to be a good parent
am i going to be able
to provide for this child
financially, emotionally,
physically.
So it was it was very exciting but also
the same time the bit scary.
it's normal for mothers
and fathers to go through
periods of feeling
really positive and
and a little bit down
but if you're not
dragging yourself out of a
a dark period over a
period of a week or so
and it feels like it's getting worse and
you having those negative thoughts..
please seek help.
I spoke to a lot of midwives about the
emotions that i was feeling..
i found that..
They're fantastic cause they were..
Very very good i didn't have my
husband and there I thought
that that was again
a time that we could have.
Me time so i could go in there and and just
let out everything they'd love, so it was..
it was very good so..
If you have got a good
relationship with your doctor
you can definitely go and speak
to your gp-(General Practitioner).
it's probably worth
while i'm talking to..
first time moms, but another
good option these days is there's alot of
groups on Facebook so you can..
Talk about your thoughts
and feelings online.
you probably felt more than i did.
I did not feel much different.
Yeah
i didn't feel like a father
It wasn't there yet.
yeah.
generally in the first trimester
there's that realization you're pregnant..
and what does this mean for your life
what does this mean for you as a couple.
When it's just been the two of
you, especially if it's your first baby.
If it's not your first baby you're
starting to think, what am i..
how's this going to impact on
the other child that's here.
You know i love this
child so completely
am i going to have the
capacity to love another child
so they all really normal thoughts.